LS-472-admin-vm (#43)
datastax/pulsar-docs: modules/ROOT/pages/admin-console-VM.adoc

= Install Pulsar Admin Console on Server/VM

> The Pulsar Admin Console has 2 main components: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Pulsar Admin Console has two main components: 
```

* A Node.js application that runs the server and serves the dashboard client code to browsers. 
* An NGINX server that routes network traffic to different locations within the Pulsar Cluster. 

> Technically, the two processes do not need to be collocated, but we recommend running them on the same host/VM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Technically, the two processes do not need to be collocated, but we recommend running them on the same host/virtual machine (VM).
```

== Install Pulsar Admin Console

. Download and install the Node version 11.15.0 tarball to the VM. 

> 

Reviewer 2: Can we include a link to the node.js download page so that users can find the correct version to download for their OS. Here is the link: https://nodejs.org/en/download/

----
wget https://nodejs.org/dist/v11.15.0/node-v11.15.0-linux-x64.tar.xz / 
tar -xf node-v11.15.0-linux-x64.tar.xz
----
[start=2]
. Download and install the Pulsar Admin console tarball to the VM.  

> 

Reviewer 2: Need to include a link to the releases page: https://github.com/datastax/pulsar-admin-console/releases

----
wget https://github.com/datastax/pulsar-admin-console/releases/download/1.1.5/pulsar-admin-console-1.1.5.tar.gz
----

> [start=3]

Reviewer: ```suggestion

[start=3]
```

. Decompress and unzip the tarball in the desired location.

----
tar -xf pulsar-admin-console-1.1.5.tar.gz
----
[start=4]
. This will create a `dest/` directory that contains all necessary dependencies for the Pulsar Admin Console (except node).
. From `dest/server`, run `npm start` to start up the Pulsar Admin Console. By default, this will start the server running listening at `localhost:6454`.

== Modify Admin Console Configuration

> You can modify the configuration for the Console here: `dest/dashboard/dest/config.js`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can modify the configuration for the console in `dest/dashboard/dest/config.js`. 
```

> Alternatively, you can override configuration values by creating a file named `config-override.js` in the same directory (`dest/dashboard/dest/config-override.js`). See below for an example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can override configuration values by creating a file named `config-override.js` in the `dest/dashboard/dest/` directory. See below for an example:
```

    	"test": "",
    	"client_token": "",
    	"admin_token": "",
    	"login": "admin",
    	"email": "",
    	"client_role": "",
    	"plan": "",
    	"need_to_create_plan": "",
    	"plan_to_create": "",
    	"admin_role": "",
    	"cluster_list": [],
    	"api_base_url": "",
    	"ca_certificate": "",
    	"api_version": "”,
    	"default_plan": "",
    	"notice_text": "",
    	"grafana_url": "”,
    	"user_role": "administrator",
    	"feature_flags": {
        	"function": true,
        	"sink": true,
        	"source": true,
        	"tenantStats": false
    	},
    	"security": "",
    	"chargebee_site": "",
    	"billing_provider": "",
    	"multi_user_org": "",
    	"private_org": "true",
    	"functions_disabled": "false",
    	"clients_disabled": "false",
    	"running_env": "k8s",
    	"use_token_list": "false",
    	"auth_mode": "",
    	"oauth_client_id": "",
    	"host_overrides": {
        	"pulsar": "",
        	"ws": "”,
        	"http": "”
    	}
	}
----

== Install Nginx

You must install nginx on the same host. You can find installation instructions https://docs.nginx.com/nginx/admin-guide/installing-nginx/installing-nginx-open-source/[here].

> It’s essential to configure Nginx to route traffic appropriately. Below is a sample configuration. There are comments for each section to help decide how to build the `nginx.conf` file. Put the configuration file in `/etc/nginx/nginx.conf`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

It’s essential to configure Nginx to route traffic appropriately with the configuration file in `/etc/nginx/nginx.conf` file. In the sample configuration below, there are comments for each section to help decide how to build the `nginx.conf` file:
```
